We're very happy to have hundreds of thousands of children associated with our congregations
worldwide.
You can be assured Jehovah loves every one of those children.
Well, how can we say that?
Well, one reason is that every child owes its name to Jehovah God because he's the
originator of life and, in fact, the originator of the family unit as well.
When Jesus was in heaven, he recognized and observed Jehovah's intense love for children.
And when Jesus walked the earth, he reflected those same qualities towards children.
The Psalmist beautifully expresses Jehovah's feelings about children in the 127th Psalm
in verse 3.
And let's read that.
Psalm 127 and verse 3.
Jesus says, Look, sons are an inheritance from Jehovah.
The fruit of the womb is a reward.
So not only are children a blessing or a reward, the Scripture indicates that they are an
inheritance as well.
Yes, they are a gift to you from Jehovah.
A person who hopes to inherit something usually prepares to receive it and then takes good
care of it afterwards.
I'm sure that's exactly what you parents want to do with your children.
While children can bring much joy, they can also cause frustration.
So the question is, How can you find joy in your children despite living in a stressful
world?
One suggestion is to view your children the way Jehovah does.
These are special gifts to you from Him.
Love them, make them feel loved.
It's not enough for you to know you love your own children, they need to know it.
They will not know it unless you find ways to show your love to them.
And as with any gift, there's a responsibility to take care of it.
If we go back to the 127 Psalm, notice the illustration that King Solomon uses to explain
this responsibility.
It's in verses 4 and 5, Psalm 127, 4 and 5.
It says like arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the sons of one's youth.
Happy is the man who fills his quiver with them, they will not be put to shame.
So children are likened to arrows and parents to mighty warriors.
So a warrior will take the arrow and he will carefully aim it so he hits the target.
What's the same with you parents?
We encourage you carefully direct your children in a way that, so to speak, you hit the target
so your children can have a happy fulfilling life of serving Jehovah God.
So what can help you to do that?
Pray to Jehovah to help you build and maintain a strong relationship with your children.
This closeness will help them to respond favorably to your good direction.
Yes, the way you treat your children is going to affect not only their future, but your happiness
as well.
Now there are five suggestions that might be of assistance and building and maintaining
this strong relationship with your children.
The first one, tell your children you love them, or you might say, well, that's not the
way I was raised.
Well, maybe not, but learn from the example of Jehovah God because Jehovah openly expressed
his affection for his son, Jesus.
No matter how you were brought up, learn to express openly your feelings towards your children.
One father said this, I have found that children are a bit like some flowers.
Just as these little plants turn toward the sun to receive light and warmth, children
look to their parents for love and for reassurance that they are welcome members of the family.
They don't make your children have to ask you, Mom, Dad, do you love me?
No.
On a regular basis, let your words support the fact that you love them.
Now another way to build a strong relationship with your children is to give them your time.
That's going to be a challenge in the world we're living in now.
But don't you think your children are worth meeting that challenge?
It's going to require good organization on your part and maybe even making some sacrifices,
giving up some things that you enjoy doing.
But spend a lot of time talking to your children, eating with your children, playing with your children.
It's up to you parents to figure out how you can give your time to your children.
A mother once asked her children, if you could have anything you wanted, what would you like most?
All four responded, more time with Mom and Dad.
Yes, so show your children how important they are to you by spending time with them.
But you know there's more than necessary just to physically be around them
that leads us to our third suggestion.
Listen to your children and acknowledge their feelings.
So when communicating with your children, don't dominate the conversations.
Let them talk.
Listen carefully and respectfully.
Try to understand how they feel.
And when they express themselves and their emotions, their thoughts and sometimes
and maybe in extreme terms, well, don't respond in a similar way.
Proverbs 16, 23 says,
the heart of the wise one gives his mouth insight.
So parents work hard at patiently trying to understand why your child feels the way they do
and how you can be of help.
One father expressed the matter this way,
since Jehovah allows me to pour out my heart to him in prayer,
I think it is only fair that I allow my children to pour out their positive and negative feelings to me.
Also, listen to your children and acknowledge their feelings.
Now the fourth suggestion that may help to maintain a strong relationship with your children
is do not expect them to be adults.
Remember the Bible says, through use,
a person's perceptive powers are trained to distinguish between right and wrong.
Well, that's going to take time.
The Bible also speaks of the trait of the babe,
the foolishness of boyhood and the vanity of adolescence.
So as your children are going through these various stages,
recognize their limitations and don't expect them to be little adults.
Now the fifth suggestion,
when disciplining your children,
always show love and discernment.
Now this is supported by Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 4,
because there it tells parents not to be irritating your children,
but to bring them up in the discipline and admonition of Jehovah.
Says no secret formulas are how to accomplish this,
especially since every child is different.
So parents, we encourage you give thought to the manner of your discipline,
always showing love and discernment.
So there are five suggestions that will help you to build a strong relationship with your children
that will help them to respond to your good training.
Now what effect will that have upon you parents?
Well, please read with me Proverbs chapter 23 and 24 and 25.
Proverbs 23, 24 and 25.
It says the Father of a righteous one will surely be joyful,
whoever Father is a wise son will rejoice in him.
Your Father and your mother will rejoice,
and she who gave birth to you will be joyful.
So the greatest joy that a parent can have
is to see their children turn out to be righteous
and wise servants of Jehovah God.
It's going to take time and effort on your part to accomplish that,
but we encourage you don't give up on these precious gifts
that you have received from Jehovah.
Have you watched the following dramatization?
Notice how the parents rejoice in their children.
Thank you. I love you. I love you too. Show time.
Him, I'm death. Got a shower before us then.
Girls, you need to finish the kitchen now. No, we don't have any time.
We just got home. No discussion. No excuses.
Now. Okay, thanks.
I did tell them to leave the kitchen spot with, didn't I?
Yeah, they needed to hear that. True.
It's just overall, they are. I know. I know.
They were auxiliary pioneering during the circuit overseas visit.
They really put themselves out for others.
Including you. I mean us.
Ever want to take them for granted?
Girls, I felt the big mess earlier.
Thanks for cleaning that up. Your mom and I, we were upset,
but we really want you to know that...
You are gifts from Jehovah.
Precious gifts. We both cherish. We love you very much.
What your mom said.
Did you notice how the parents rejoiced in their children?
Even though the daughters needed some counsel and some discipline,
it didn't overshadow all their good qualities.
No, but these parents, they made comments like they never wanted to take the
girls for granted. And they cherished these girls.
In fact, they openly expressed that they loved them.
Now, it was apparent this family had cultivated joy.
And we're confident that you as parents also are working hard
at cultivating joy in your family.
Some things that will help you is to be sure to tell your children you love them.
Give them your time. Listen to them.
I acknowledge their feelings. Don't expect them to be adults
and train them with love and discernment.
These suggestions are going to help you to
aim your children to an everlasting future of serving Jehovah God.
And as you put forth all this effort to assist your children,
you'll be able to rejoice in them. These precious gifts
that you have inherited from Jehovah. Brother Ronald Kerzan,
a helper to the teaching committee, will now present the final talk of this
symposium. Cultivate joy in your family.
Young ones rejoice in your parents.